# ClusteringAnalysis_ermB_2024
 
Machine learning-based classification reveals distinct clusters of non-coding genomic allelic variations associated with Erm-mediated antibiotic resistance

Yongjun Tan, Alexandre Le Scornet, Mee-Ngan Frances Yap, Dapeng Zhang

This repository is to store the data and source codes for manuscript "Machine learning-based classification reveals distinct clusters of non-coding genomic allelic variations associated with Erm-mediated antibiotic resistance".

There are three scripts corresponding to different analyses.

Part One: Allele frequency calculation
1. ermB.align.list
   This file is the input file of ermB_frequency.py, which is a multiple sequence alignment (MSA) comprising a total of 21,525 sequences used in this study and is generated by the BLASTN (output format 1). 
2. ermB.align.table
   This file is the output plaintext table of ermB_frequency.py. User could open it using Notepad software in Windows. Within this file, first column is the nucleotide for each position. Second is the position. Third is the percentage of allele frequency based on the number of aligned sequences. Fourth is the number of alignment sequence at this position. Fifth is the percentage of allele frequency based on total number of sequences. Sixth is the total number of sequences. Seventh and others are the categories and number of the variations at each position.
3. ermB_frequency.py
   This file is the Python3 scripts to calculate allele frequency. Input file is ermB.align.list, and output file is ermB.align.table.

Part Two: Entropy calculation
1.



Part Three: Entropy calculation
